On the occasion  of International Yoga Day a week long festival  from 16-24 June was conducted
By the Indian Cultural Center SITA and the Embassy of India in Ostankino Park, Moscow
And the inauguration  of the festival was done by the Ambassador of India to the Russian Federation Mr. Pankaj Saran
We started celebrating the International Yoga Day in Russia from 2015
This is the 4th year we are celebrating it and every year the number of participants is increasing immensely
This year this festival is being celebrated in 70-80 different regions of Russia
Russian people love to do Yoga
and they do it on their own
We are definitely trying to motivate people as much as possible
But wherever I go I see people themselves are doing yoga throughout the year very excitedly and happily
There is yoga teacher also in our cultural center who travels to different cities of Russia and trains people
Yoga is very popular in Russia, and especially among the youth it is getting very popular
There are many yoga centers in all the parts of this country
People are happily doing it and are very much interested
And can you please tell how actively the Russians are taking part in this year's International Yoga Day festival?
This year because of the FIFA World Cup 2018 there are some restrictions
But this festival which is starting today will continue for more than a week
and a lot of people will be attending the program everyday
there are Indian food stalls
so it is a celebration of Yoga
people would come, do yoga, there is our yoga teacher here and he will recite the chants
there's a common yoga protocol which we will start shortly
and everyday throughout the whole week there will be yoga sessions taking place over here
Mr.Ambassador , please would you tell us what is the importance of yoga in your life?
In my life yoga plays a very important role
because I started doing yoga  ten years ago
and back then I didn't know that yoga can have so much of impact
not only on our physical state but also on our mental health as well
And the atmosphere in which we are living we are surrounded by stress, tension and problems
so for that yoga is a very appropriate and helpful system
and personally it has helped me very much
so that is why I always try to do Yoga
So what would you like to say to our viewers on this occasion of International Yoga Day?
I would say that Yoga is a gift of India to this whole world,
Now I am in Russia but wherever I have been to, I have seen that Yoga is getting very popular
And I wish as many people can do Yoga it's great, irrespective of their age
whether they are young or old, the age doesn't matter
But if you do yoga for a couple of times then I am pretty sure that  you will keep doing Yoga forever.